---
visible: true
draft: false
featured: false
title: The Top 105 Foreign Policy Failures of the Biden Presidency
date: 2024-06-19T17:14:05.389Z
summary: ""
cta: Read More →
categories:
  - Newsroom
image: /img/updates/15dc-prexy-1-videosixteenbyninejumbo1600.jpg
---
**The Top 105 Foreign Policy Failures of the Biden Presidency**

1. **Biden Assembles National Security “Dream Team” (Transition):** Appointments include longtime Beltway careerists and Obama-Clinton allies like Antony Blinken despite warnings that he was “not only unqualified” but “dangerous to America” (Sen. McCain, 2014) and that Biden was “wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades” (Bob Gates, 2014). At the time, Sen. Rubio correctly warned that Biden’s picks–the likes of John Kerry and Jake Sullivan–“went to Ivy League schools, have strong resumes, attend all the right conferences & will be polite & orderly caretakers of America’s decline.”
2. **Halting Keystone Pipeline and Federal Drilling (January 20, 2021):** President Biden launched a crusade against traditional energy on day one, revoking a key permit for the Keystone XL pipeline and banning oil and gas permitting for federal lands and waters. These actions killed thousands of U.S. jobs, raised prices at the pump, and emboldened European reliance on Russian energy. It also angered neighboring Canada, prompting Trudeau to convey his strong disappointment to Biden.
3. **President Biden Announces U.S. Return to WHO (January 21, 2021):** The Biden Administration informed UN Secretary-General Antόnio Guterres that the United States would remain a member of WHO, retracting President Trump’s decision to withdraw. The move–apparently made without WHO concessions for reform or improvement–followed the WHO’s failure to adequately investigate the PRC’s handling of COVID-19 and Dr. Tedros’ close collaboration with CCP authorities.
4. **Biden Administration Affirms Intent to Open PLO Office (January 26, 2021):** Acting U.S. envoy Richard Mills confirmed the Biden Administration intended to “reopen diplomatic missions” including the Palestinian Liberation Office in Washington despite the PLO’s continued celebration of anti-Israel violence via the “pay to slay” program and “martyrs’ fund.” The move required a waiver to the 1987 Anti-Terrorist Act, which states that the “PLO and its affiliates are a terrorist organization \[...] and should not benefit from operating in the United States.”
5. **Extending the New START Treaty (February 3, 2021):** Biden’s State Department immediately handed Moscow a win by extending the treaty for five years with no conditions to ensure Russian compliance or America’s ability to inspect stockpiles, enforce implementation of the treaty, or monitor Russia’s nuclear posture.
6. **Ending Support for the Saudi Offensive in Yemen (February 4, 2021):** President Biden announced the end of U.S. support for the Saudi-led military offensive in Yemen, emphasizing the humanitarian catastrophe and strategic failure of the conflict. The move was a clear rebuke to a key U.S. partner and marked Biden’s promised “strategic downgrade” of a vital relationship for containing Iran’s designs for regional hegemony.
7. **Canceling the Asylum Cooperative Agreements (February 6, 2021):** President Biden canceled ACAs with El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras just 16 days into his presidency, with no replacement plan. Established in 2019 by his predecessor, “safe third country” agreements required asylum seekers to first seek refuge in these Central American countries before applying in the United States. The abrupt cancellation without a clear alternative framework led to a surge in migration, contributing to the worst border crisis in U.S. history.
8. **Rejoining the UN Human Rights Council (February 8, 2021):** President Biden instructed the State Department to re-engage “immediately and robustly” with the Council despite the continued membership of human rights abusers and the Council’s refusal to address its systemic anti-Israel bias by removing standing Agenda Item 7. Despite our presence, the Council has passed more resolutions condemning Israel (well over 100) than China, Russia, Iran, Cuba, Syria, North Korea, and Venezuela combined–and the number of non-democracies with Council membership has risen.
9. **Revoking Designation of the Houthis as a FTO and SDGT (February 12, 2021)**: Sec. Blinken announced the misguided revocation of the Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) and Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) designation of Yemen’s Houthi movement. Though couched as “a recognition of the dire humanitarian situation in Yemen,” the move obviously failed as the Biden Administration later relisted the Houthis as an SDGT. This was a clear strategic failing: appeasement led to a series of unprecedented Houthi attacks against maritime vessels in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, as well as U.S. forces defending commercial shipping.
10. **Biden Snubs PM Netanyahu (February 17, 2021):** For more than three weeks after his inauguration, President Biden declined to call our closest Middle East ally, raising alarm in Jerusalem. The move underscored his antipathy for Israel’s leader–a dynamic that would become all the more evident over the course of his presidency.
11. **Restarting Negotiations with Iran (February 18, 2021):** Without preconditions, the Biden Administration announced a return to diplomacy with Tehran, formally offering to restart nuclear talks. The move to rush to negotiations after Iran’s repeated violations of the JCPOA, continued support for terrorism, and regional destabilization signaled the beginning of a concession-driven approach that has only emboldened Iran’s malign activities and advanced its nuclear program.
12. **Canceling Snapback Sanctions on Iran Weapons (February 18, 2021):** In an effort to grease the skids for a JCPOA return, the Biden Administration rescinded UN sanctions on Iran imposed because of its “significant non-performance” with obligations under the agreement. The snapback of UNSC Resolution 2231 had reimposed the UN arms embargo against Iran from supplying weapons to Russia and other countries or terror groups; its revocation allowed Iran to legally conduct its arms sales.
13. **Repealing Travel Restrictions on Iranian Diplomats (February 18, 2021):** The Biden Administration repealed travel limits that confined Iranian diplomats to a small radius around the UN headquarters in New York City in an effort to accommodate Tehran ahead of JCPOA talks. The move was completed without securing any concessions, unilaterally ceding U.S. leverage for misguided negotiations. It also raised alarm in Washington due to Iran’s well-documented efforts to assassinate senior U.S. officials and has attempted to kidnap and kill U.S. citizens.
14. **Biden Administration Rejoins Paris Agreement (February 19, 2021):** President Biden reversed the Trump withdrawal from the climate deal despite its fatal flaws. Even under highly favorable assumptions and with strict enforcement and immediate implementation, the agreement was projected to reduce global temperatures in 2100 by a mere 0.17 degrees C. Correctly, the Trump Administration also noted that the Paris accord would cost the United States trillions in lost GDP and millions of jobs. While the United States should be open to negotiating a more viable arrangement, such a deal should have verifiable enforcement mechanisms and be submitted to the Senate for treaty ratification.
15. **Blinken, Sullivan Fail to Stand Up to CCP Lectures (March 19, 2021):** During U.S.-China talks in Alaska, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi openly denigrated America before top Biden officials, scolding them in a tirade with talking points ripped straight from progressive racial ideology. He said that America “does not have the qualification” to address China “from a position of strength,” that it does “not serve as a model to others", and that “China's rise was unstoppable.” Yang further accused the U.S. of “inciting other countries to attack China” and noted that “it is important for the United States to change its own image and stop advancing its own democracy in the rest of the world.”
16. **Resuming UNRWA Funding (April 7, 2021):** Despite clear evidence of the UN Relief and Works Agency’s rampant antisemitism, collaboration with Hamas, and promotion of terrorism, Sec. Blinken resumed U.S. contributions–without even securing reforms and concessions. This fateful decision has failed to address its radicalism and “refugee” definition and is now directly implicating U.S. taxpayer dollars in Hamas’ war on Israel.
17. **Biden Announces Afghanistan Withdrawal (April 14, 2021):** Ignoring warnings by the Intelligence Community and Pentagon officials on the acute perils of a complete drawdown of U.S. forces, President Biden moved forward with a politically-driven timeline symbolically tied to the 20th anniversary of 9/11. The move ignored warnings that the Afghan military would be unable to stop a Taliban advance without U.S. support and that over-the-horizon capabilities would be an inadequate substitute for counter-terrorism capabilities.
18. **White House Blindsides EU on COVID-19 Patent Suspension (May 5, 2021):** The Biden Administration did not provide EU leaders and NATO allies prior notice on the White House proposal to suspend patents on COVID-19 vaccines. The decision prompted industry frustration, arguing that the suspension of patent protections would harm continuing research efforts against the virus and undercut the production of vaccines.
19. **Reiterates Trust in Diplomacy with Moscow (May 7, 2021):** After Russian hackers from the REvil syndicate shut down Colonial Pipeline with a ransomware attack and forced all pipeline operations to stop, a White House official affirmed that President Biden “believes in diplomacy” with Putin to address ransomware hacks emanating from Russian soil.
20. **Waiving and Lifting Sanctions on Nord Stream 2 (May 19, 2021):** The Biden Administration refused to impose sanctions on a company constructing Russia’s NS2 gas pipeline in a misguided effort to repair relations with Germany. It even lifted sanctions on the project’s AG despite conceding that he had engaged in sanctionable activity because it was supposedly in the “national interest” to do so. The move was a clear departure from Sec. Blinken’s assurances to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he was “determined to do whatever we can to prevent the completion” of NS2 during his confirmation hearing.
21. **Cutting Defense Spending in FY22 Budget (May 28, 2021):** In contrast to its 20 percent increase in its non-defense discretionary budget and trillions in other non-national security spending, the Biden Administration proposed a lackluster defense budget that fell below the rate of inflation. Lawmakers decried the President’s Budget Request as cutting the Pentagon’s buying power and far short of the funding growth needed to resource U.S. national defense and allocated an additional $53 billion to supplement the Biden request.
22. **Ending the "Remain in Mexico" Policy (June 1, 2021):** Sec. Mayorkas announced the termination of the Migrant Protection Protocols, a policy implemented during the Trump Administration to prevent asylum abuse by requiring immigrants to await asylum hearings in Mexico. Ending the “Remain in Mexico” policy led to a rapid surge in illegal border crossings, field migrants’ illegal efforts to directly enter the homeland, and strained the asylum system with backlogs and claim processing delays.
23. **Ordering State Department Not to Refer to “Abraham Accords” (June 4, 2021):** In an apparent attempt to diminish the Trump-era accomplishments, the Biden Administration discouraged officials from referring to the “Abraham Accords,” according to State Department emails. The name was replaced by the term “normalization agreements” in talking points, documents, statements, and official communications. Rumors of the change first surfaced in early April, when State Department spokesman Ned Price refused to state the term “Abraham Accords” on multiple occasions when pressed by reporters.
24. **Harris Border Trip Peeves Allies (June 6, 2021):** After President Biden appointed Kamala as immigration czar and dispatched her to Central America, President Giammattei told the Vice President that the Biden Administration is responsible for the chaos at the Southern Border. Specifically, he points to President Biden’s vow to ensure family reunifications and urges the White House to impose tougher sentences on human smugglers.
25. **Biden Backs Down on Chinese Spy Apps (June 9, 2021):** President Biden withdrew Trump-era executive orders that sought to ban new downloads of dangerous Chinese espionage platforms such as WeChat and TikTok. He promised the Commerce Department would launch an "evidence-based" evaluation of apps with Chinese connections that may pose a security risk and "take action, as appropriate" based on those reviews. The move allowed TikTok usership to surge and enabled CCP espionage on Americans to continue unabated.
26. **Gifting Iran with Unilateral Sanctions Relief (June 10, 2021):** Days before “indirect talks” on Iran’s nuclear program in Vienna (because Iran insisted on intermediaries), the Biden Administration preemptively lifted sanctions on three Iranian officials and two companies who facilitated Iran’s oil industry. While State Department Spokesman Ned Price insisted there was “absolutely no connection” between the conciliatory gesture and nuclear talks, the move was a clear signal to Tehran that America was prepared to relieve sanctions in exchange for a return to JCPOA compliance.
27. **White House Supports 2002 AUMF Repeal (June 14, 2021):** The White House released a Statement of Administration Policy indicating its support for the repeal, stating that “the United States has no ongoing military activities that rely solely on the 2002 AUMF as a domestic legal basis, and repeal of the 2002 AUMF would likely have minimal impact on current military operations.” However, the repeal effort raised concerns among Republican lawmakers about the potential of weakening our counter-terrorism efforts and ability to respond to Iranian proxy attacks in Iraq. Others expressed concerns the repeal might embolden U.S. adversaries if done at an inopportune moment or without a replacement framework in place. Ironically, the White House used the 2002 AUMF once again in January 2024. 
28. **Telling Putin what Critical Infrastructure Entities are “Off Limits” (June 16, 2021):** President Biden gave Putin a list of 16 entities that Moscow’s cyberattacks should not target, implying those not on the list would be tolerated or face minimal blowback. He then refused to say he would even consider military action in response to Russian ransomware attacks.
29. **Withholding Military Aid Package from Ukraine (June 18, 2021):** The Biden White House suspended $100 million in military aid from Kyiv after Russia assured Washington it would halt aggressive troop movements near Ukraine’s border before a summit between Biden and Putin. NSC officials said they would provide the package–which included short-range air defense systems, small arms, and anti-tank weapons–to Ukraine if Russia invaded, not beforehand to deter an invasion.
30. **Biden Gives Cold Shoulder to President Duque (June 28, 2021):** President Biden did not call the leader of our closest South American ally for over anytime during his first six months in office. While the phone call eventually occurred in late June, the neglect caused frustration in Bogotá at a time when Colombia is facing significant internal challenges, including widespread protests, economic instability, and ongoing violence from armed groups. President Duque had expressed a desire for stronger bilateral cooperation, but in the absence of U.S. engagement, Colombia strengthened its economic and political ties with Beijing.
31. **Abandoning Bagram Air Base (July 1, 2021):** In a sudden move in the middle of the night, U.S. forces vacated Afghanistan’s Bagram Airfield–a vital and heavily fortified strategic location–without giving prior notice to the base’s Afghan commander. After Afghan military leaders struggled to ensure security to the base–which contained 5,000 to 7,000 prisoners, including Taliban militants, looters seized the opportunity to pillage barracks and storage tents.
32. **Biden Administration Downplays Cuba Protests (July 11, 2021):** After an unprecedented number of Cubans took to the island's streets to protest the regime’s brutality and mismanagement, the Biden Administration was radio silent for hours while left-wing groups such as Black Lives Matter expressed solidarity with the regime. Subsequently, the State Department’s Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs mischaracterized the protests as a reflection of “concern about rising COVID cases/deaths” rather than demands for freedom after decades of communist tyranny.
33. **Telling Kyiv to Withhold Criticism of Pipeline Politics (July 20, 2021):** Behind closed doors, the Biden Administration told Ukrainian officials to stop their criticism of Biden’s deal with Germany to continue Russian gas shipments and not to discuss any details with Congress. U.S. officials reportedly threatened Ukrainian counterparts by indicating that going public with their opposition to the agreement would damage the bilateral relationship.
34. **Taliban Releases al Qaeda and Thousands of Prisoners (August 15, 2021):** After capturing Bagram Air Base and the Pul-e-Charkhi prison, the Taliban released up to 7,000 prisoners, including many senior al Qaeda operatives from a maximum-security cell block. Previously held by U.S. forces, the prisoners were known as some of the Taliban’s most hardened fighters and eager to threaten Afghan citizens as well as U.S. security. That same day, U.S. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley informed Congress that a military assessment of the risk of terrorist groups reconstituting in Afghanistan would be increased because of the events.
35. **Biden Repeatedly Lies About Conditions in Afghanistan (August 18, 2021):** After setting an arbitrary deadline for withdrawal, the Taliban rapidly gained control of all but a few provinces. With American citizens in full retreat between August 13 and 16, the Biden Administration left them behind enemy lines, abandoned troves of military equipment, and touched off a refugee crisis with thousands desperately seeking to flee. In response to these events, President Biden avoided the press, showed no remorse for his decision, and lied directly to the American people. In his infamous interview with George Stephanopoulos, he claimed the withdrawal could not have been handled “better in any way” and that “no mistakes” had been made. After callously downplaying Afghans falling to their deaths from U.S. planes–stating “that was four days ago, five days ago”–he advanced several lies: that nobody anticipated the Afghan military would be unable to stop a Taliban advance, that his military advisors did not urge him to keep a residual force, that the Taliban was cooperating with U.S. citizens trying to leave, that NATO allies agreed with his approach, and that al-Qaeda had been wiped out in Afghanistan.
36. **Afghanistan Debacle Causes European Dismay (August - September 2021):** Western leaders reacted with ire and disappointment at the Biden Administration for its show of incompetence. German leader Armin Laschet stated that Biden’s actions did “fundamental damage to the political and moral credibility of the West,” while Czech President Miloš Zeman affirmed that Biden’s decisions were predicated on “cowardice.” Former Swedish President Carl Bildt piled on, decrying Biden’s “complete lack of consultations over the withdrawal.” British Defense Minister Ben Wallace also rebuffed White House talking points on the U.S. counter-terrorism mission: “Of course Al Qaeda will probably come back,” the British Defense Minister said. And British Defense Committee Chairman Tobias Ellwood said more pointedly: “What ever happened to ‘America is back?”
37. **Biden Fuels Chinese Industry (August 25, 2021):** Despite promising to protect American technology, the Biden Administration approved licenses worth hundreds of millions of dollars for Huawei. Because of this, China’s blacklisted telecom company became eligible to buy chips for its auto component business and access commodities that could harm the United States.
38. **Biden’s Withdrawal Leaves Kabul in Chaos, 13 Heroes Dead (August 26, 2021):** Exploiting pandemonium at Hamid Karzai Airport, an ISIS-K suicide bomber tragically killed 170 Afghan civilians and 13 American service members– a direct consequence of the Biden national security team’s disastrous decision-making.
39. **Retaliatory Strike Kills Civilians, Not Terrorists (August 29, 2021):** An attempted U.S. drone strike on ISIS-K kills ten civilians, including seven children, rather than the airport attack perpetrator. Some argue the withdrawal’s chaos and the urgency of preventing another attack set conditions for poor decision-making.
40. **Blindsiding France with AUKUS (September 15, 2021):** Despite touting its deft transatlantic diplomacy, the Biden Administration failed to notify President Macron that a $37 billion attack-class submarine project with France would be canceled until just hours before announcing the trilateral security partnership. The row infuriated Paris, which called the move a “knife in the back” and prompted the first recalling of a U.S. ambassador in French history. President Biden was forced to apologize for the “clumsy” behavior.
41. **Biden’s EV Proposal Alienates Canada, Mexico (November 15, 2021):** President Biden’s proposed EV tax credits–which would provide consumer tax credits of $4,500 for EVs made with U.S. union labor–sparked a significant backlash from Canada and Mexico, America’s top two trading partners. Both countries insisted the proposal violated the terms of the USMCA and would do great damage to their auto sectors. The move, clearly designed to appeal to organized labor and workers in Midwestern states, overshadowed the first trilateral summit between the leaders in years.
42. **White House Fails to Relocate Winter Olympics (December 6, 2021):** After the White House failed to convince the International Olympic Committee to relocate the Winter Games from China, President Biden announced a diplomatic boycott of the event, caving to bipartisan pressure from Capitol Hill and others. Even so, U.S. athletes participated in the tournament while Beijing put its authoritarian grip on full display by censoring online content, arresting dissidents, and staging an interview with tennis star Peng Shuai, who had accused a senior CCP official of sexual assault.
43. **Delaying Ukraine Aid–Again (December 12, 2021):** Despite pleas from Kyiv, the Biden Administration withheld $200 million in military aid to “retain leverage” and “allow more time for diplomatic solutions” with Russia. The move was condemned for undercutting the readiness of Ukrainian forces on the eve of a potential Russian attack. Indeed, Ukrainians would suffer in the early days of the war from this lack of weaponry.
44. **White House Lobbies Against Pipeline Sanctions (January 11, 2022):** Senate Democrats blocked Sen. Cruz’s bill to sanction NS2 with asset freezes and travel bans on European business officials finalizing the pipeline after intense pressure by Biden’s top officials. The White House argued the bill would undermine transatlantic unity, that sanctions should be preserved for punishing an invasion of Ukraine (not deterring it), and that every single diplomatic avenue needed to be exhausted first.
45. **White House Deploys “Seasoned Negotiator” to Avert Ukraine War (January 12, 2022):** President Biden tasked Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman–who negotiated both the 1994 Joint Framework (which allowed a North Korean nuclear weapon) and the JCPOA (which allowed Iran to legally develop a nuclear weapon by 2031)–to preserve peace in Europe. The results were fairly predictable.
46. **Biden Administration Opposes EastMed, Allows NS2 (January 18, 2022):** The Biden Administration abruptly withdrew support for the EastMed Pipeline, which would have delivered Israeli and Cypriot natural gas to Europe via Greece and Italy upon completion in 2025. The move undercut European energy security on the eve of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, eliminating a potential pathway for offsetting roughly 12-15 percent of the EU’s annual natural gas imports from Russia, and came as the White House continued to refuse sanctions for Nord Stream 2.
47. **“Minor Incursion” Gaffe (January 19, 2022):** President Biden capped off his first year in office by half-condoning a Russian attack, suggesting that Moscow would face minimal consequences if it committed a “minor incursion” into Ukraine. The statement drew widespread European condemnation and prompted a rare rebuke by President Zelenskyy, who clarified there is no such thing as “minor incursions.”
48. **Pentagon Discharges Troops for Refusing Vaccine (February 2, 2022):** After refusing to comply with Sec. Austin’s COVID-19 vaccine mandate, 3,000 troops are forced out by the U.S. Army. The involuntary separations coincided with record recruitment shortfalls, followed congressional concerns about inadequate accommodations to service members, and is estimated to cost millions to recruit and train new service members. No U.S. government employees have been fired for the Afghanistan withdrawal.
49. **Issuing Waivers for Rosatom Nuclear Projects (February 4, 2022):** Reversing a Trump Administration decision, the State Department issued sanctions relief for Iran’s nuclear activities in an effort to salvage the JCPOA. The move allowed foreign countries and companies to engage in Iran’s nuclear sector without facing U.S. penalties and greenlighted construction of two nuclear reactors in Iran by Russian state-owned Rosatom in a $10 billion contract.
50. **Biden Administration Fails to Deter Russian Invasion of Ukraine (February 24, 2022):** After withholding military aid, refusing to sanction Nord Stream 2, and signaling that a “minor incursion” would face limited blowback, and countless diplomatic overtures to Moscow, Russia launches its war against Ukraine, invading the eastern territories of Donetsk and Luhansk before marching on Kyiv. President Biden has failed at one of his most important tasks as commander-in-chief since 1945: preventing wars of conquest on the European continent.
51. **Zelensky Spurns Biden Administration’s Evacuation Offer (February 26, 2022):** After U.S. officials asked President Zelensky to evacuate Kyiv, he turned down the request, reportedly responding: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride.” The move showed a stark contrast between the courageous spirit of the Ukrainian resistance and the Biden Administration’s obsession with retreat.
52. **Biden Refuses to Enforce Oil Sanctions on Iran (March 1, 2022):** Tanker tracking data reveals that Chinese purchases of Iranian oil have reached record levels, exceeding a previous peak in 2016 when the trade was unsanctioned by the United States. Because of the Biden Administration’s refusal to enforce sanctions and continued pursuit of nuclear negotiations, Chinese imports have exceeded 700,000 barrels per day by January.
53. **Pentagon Releases Second GITMO Detainee from U.S. Custody (March 7, 2022):** The Pentagon announces that the Biden Administration decided to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainee Mohammad Ahmad al-Qahtani, known as the “20th hijacker” for his attempted role in the 9/11 attacks. President Biden ignored concerns that the devout jihadist–who committed his life to killing Americans–may try to resume terrorist activity once released from U.S. custody.
54. **Rejecting Poland’s Offer of Support (March 9, 2022):** The Biden Administration refused Poland’s “untenable” proposal to transfer its Russian-made MiG-29 fighter jets to replenish Ukraine’s air force against invading Russian forces, claiming it could provoke Russia to fly combat aircraft from NATO territory into the war zone. Incredibly, then-Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said it was “not clear that there is a substantive rationale” for the move while Ukraine defended itself with antiquated Soviet-era weaponry. The U.S. response prompted Zelensky to ask, “What is NATO doing? Is it being run by Russia?”
55. **Denying Ukraine Patriot Air Defense System (March 10, 2022):** After Russia bombs a maternity hospital killing hundreds of civilians, the White House refused to send the advanced Patriot air-defense system to Ukraine, claiming it would require U.S. forces to enter Ukraine to operate it–a move that could provoke Russia. The Patriot air-defense system is the only such operational system that can shoot down attacking missiles. However, after nine months of refusing to send Patriot missile defense systems to Ukraine, the Biden Administration agreed to send one on December 21, 2022, as Russia carries out a relentless airstrike campaign on Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and electrical grid. The air defense system will not be operable until the following spring, allowing Putin to destroy schools, homes, hospitals and critical infrastructure in the interim.
56. **Divulging U.S. Calculus to Russia (March 11, 2022):** After vowing in his SOTU that he would not send U.S. troops to Ukraine, President Biden ruled out enforcing a no-fly zone over Ukraine and announced to the world that “we will not fight the third World War in Ukraine.” Biden’s unnecessary public messaging further signaled the Biden Administration’s deep fear of military escalation.
57. **Trying to Lift the FTO Designation on the IRGC (March 21, 2022):** The Biden Administration almost delisted the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a Foreign Terrorist Organization during talks to revive the JCPOA. The move would have been an extraordinary and unprecedented measure given that the Guard has killed hundreds of Americans while the Quds Force supports terrorist proxy forces throughout the region. However, after a bipartisan super-majority of Senators expressed firm opposition to the measure via a Motion to Instruct offered by Sen. James Lankford, the White House backed off the plan.
58. **Delaying MLRS and Restricting their Range (May 31, 2022):** After refusing to give Kyiv Multiple Rocket Launch Systems (MLRS) due to fears that striking Russian territory would be “provocative,” President Biden finally acquiesced to conservative pressure and approved the request–on the condition Ukraine promised not to fire them in Russia. WWIII does not break out.
59. **Waiting to Send Harpoon Anti-Ship Missiles (June 15, 2022):** After extensive Ukrainian and conservative pressure, President Biden finally agreed to send Harpoon anti-ship missiles, which will take several months to reach Ukraine. The slow pace of weapons deliveries helped Russian forces achieve naval access and apply heavy pressure in the eastern Donbas region. WWIII does not break out.
60. **Biden Grovels for Saudi Oil Production–And Fails (July 15, 2022):** After pledging to turn Saudi Arabia into a “pariah” on the campaign trail, President Biden sparked a global backlash by fist-bumping Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who approved the 2018 assassination of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The awkward attempt to mend relations with Riyadh came as the White House was desperate for KSA’s help in addressing surging oil prices before the midterms but refused to unleash domestic production and America’s hundreds of barrels of untapped oil.
61. **White House Discourages Pelosi from Visiting Taiwan (August 3, 2022):** After Xi Jinping told President Biden not to allow Pelosi to travel to Taipei and that “those who play with fire will perish by it,” the White House discouraged her from visiting the island to avoid “provoking” the CCP. To her credit, Speaker Pelosi moved forward with the trip and reaffirmed “America’s unshakeable commitment to our allies and friends in the region.” The Biden Administration meddling in the CODEL was a further signal of its sensitivity to Beijing’s rhetorical resolve.
62. **Denies Ukraine’s Long-Range Missile Request (September 16, 2022):** The Biden Administration holds off Kyiv’s request for more long-range missiles (with a range of 190 miles), a critical weapon for success in a wider counteroffensive. President Biden concluded that shipping long-range guided missiles, which would give Ukraine new options for striking Crimea, would be viewed as a “major provocation” by Moscow and was thus not worth the risk.
63. **Muddling U.S. Policy on Taiwan (September 19, 2022):** Now for the fourth time in just over a year, President Biden publicly asserts that American forces would defend Taipei against a PLA invasion–a clear departure from strategic ambiguity. The statement is once again walked back by White House officials, who insist there is no change in U.S. policy. The comment renews public confusion about the Biden Administration’s stance.
64. **Engaging in Public Hand-Wringing on Nuclear War (October 6, 2022):** President Biden backtracked on comments he made on days earlier warning we faced the “prospect of Armageddon” for the first time since the Cuban missile crisis. After publicly airing his fears of nuclear war, he told Democratic donors, “I don’t think \[Putin] will” use nuclear weapons in Ukraine. The comments, offered at a private event, surprised even his own senior advisors who did not anticipate him offering his stream of consciousness on nuclear war at a partisan fundraiser. The comments earned major blowback for giving indications of how Moscow’s nuclear saber-rattling was influencing the American calculus in Ukraine.
65. **Biden Stalls Advance Air-Defense Systems (October 11, 2022):** After Kyiv pleaded for more air-defense weapons for weeks and Russian troops switched to more brutal and indiscriminate tactics under General Sergey Surovikin, President Biden finally agreed to conservative pressure and agrees to supply Ukraine advanced air-defense systems. The systems will take months to arrive, preventing the interception of incoming missiles until then. WWIII does not break out.
66. **Biden National Security Strategy Misses the Mark (October 12, 2022):** Almost two years after entering office, the Biden Administration finally released its NSS, receiving considerable pushback for its extensive focus on amorphous global challenges like climate change and COVID-19 rather than concrete security threats like Iran’s nuclear program. Most disturbingly, the strategy’s publication was delayed after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine–an indication that Moscow was not identified as a major U.S. threat in the original draft, an indictment of its lack of foresight. Furthermore, the rhetoric of the NSS does not align with the funding needs of the U.S. defense apparatus.
67. **Treasury Lifts Venezuela Sanctions on Oil Giant (November 26, 2022):** After Saudi and Emirati leaders refused to answer President Biden’s calls, the Biden Administration turned to Plan B: lifting U.S. sanctions and allowing Chevron to expand Venezuelan oil production and exports. The move followed Maduro’s agreement to restart Mexico City talks with then-opposition leader Juan Guaidó but is clearly designed to ease U.S. gas prices, a political burden for the White House.
68. **Abrams Tank Debacle (January 23-25, 2023):** Almost a year into the war, the Pentagon is still arguing against sending tanks, arguing they won’t get there in time and that training on the tanks takes months. Two days later, the White House reversed its position in light of German and conservative pressure. Chancellor Scholz had offered to send Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine if Washington sent Ukraine the M1 Abrams. The first tanks do not arrive until September. WWIII does not break out.
69. **Biden Prematurely Claims Victory Over Russian Economy (December 31, 2022):** In Warsaw, President Biden claimed earlier that year that U.S. sanctions reduced the ruble “to rubble” and that Russia’s economy would be cut in half within years. However, the ruble’s price against the dollar has rallied close to pre-invasion levels, and the Russian economy only shrunk by 2.2 percent in 2022 and IMF predictions suggest future growth. The dissonance between his declarations and the trendlines underscore the consequences of the Biden Administration’s refusal to enact thousands of sanctions on Russian exports and banks, crack down on sanctions evasion, and allowance of Russia to earn billions in oil and gas revenue through 2022.
70. **Allowing China’s Spy Balloon to Traverse America (January 28 - February 4, 2023):** For a full week, President Biden allowed a high-altitude CCP surveillance balloon to fly across the entire continental United States, letting Beijing violate our airspace with impunity and gather intelligence on our military bases–a move even rebuked by Democrats in Congress. The White House first denied the balloon’s existence before ensuring it had enough time to reach the eastern coastline. As if attempting to provide cover for the CCP, President Biden later reflected that the balloon was “more embarrassing than it was intentional.” Sec. Blinken has stated that the “chapter should be closed” as long as it doesn’t happen again.
71. **Blinken Tells Staff to Back Down on China Measures (February 6, 2023):** According to State Department officials, Sec. Blinken directed his team to back down on issuing human rights-related sanctions, exports controls, and other actions in response to China’s spy balloon incursion–rather than hold Beijing to account–to de-escalate tensions with the CCP.
72. **Refuses Long-Range ATACMS–Again (February 13, 2023):** The Biden Administration told Ukrainian officials that they wouldn’t share long-range ATACMS missiles because the U.S. military had few to spare–despite having nearly a whole year of war to increase production. This is a new excuse from six months prior, when the justification was that the use of ATACMS would provoke Putin. On September 22, 2023, after refusing to send the short-range ballistic missiles for over a year–including prior to Kyiv’s 2022 counter- offensive–President Biden finally bowed to conservative pressure and informed Zelenskyy that Washington would provide Ukraine with a few medium-range missiles but denied long-range missiles with a 190-mile range. WWIII does not break out.
73. **Biden Rules out F-16s for Ukraine (February 24, 2023):** As Zelensky continues to make public please for the planes a year into the war, President Biden declared that Ukraine “doesn’t need F-16s now,” with Pentagon allies affirmed that it would require at least 18 months to learn how to fly and maintain them in combat. President Biden eventually reversed course under conservative pressure on May 19, 2023, but U.S. training delays prevented their deployment. WWIII does not break out.
74. **White House Proposes 3% Real Cut to Military Funding (March 9, 2023):** In its FY24 budget request, the Biden Administration called for a defense spending “increase” that did not even adjust for year-on-year inflation and pay raises, which would put U.S. military spending at its lowest level since the Second World War as a share of the economy and cut the Pentagon’s buying power. The PBR’s paltry $9.1 billion request for the DOD Pacific Deterrence Initiative also ignored the assessment of the combatant command in charge of the Indo-Pacific region, which indicated $15.4 billion was needed in FY24 to address the threat of China.
75. **Droning a Shepherd in Syria (May 3, 2023):** Despite the Biden Administration’s pledge to curb unintentional casualties, a U.S. drone strike tragically killed a 56-year-old shepherd after confusing him for a senior al-Qaeda leader. Lotfi Hassan Misto was tending to his animals in a rural town in northwestern Syria when U.S. forces fired a Hellfire missile into the rocky outcrop behind his home, killing him and his sheep. The military review of the CENTCOM incident stated that the botched drone strike was the result of “confirmation bias and insufficient red teaming.”
76. **Biden “Brit-Bashes” London After Belfast Visit (May 10, 2023):** After visiting Northern Ireland to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement, President Biden remarked at a Democratic Party fundraiser in New York that he visited Northern Ireland “to make sure the Brits didn’t screw around.” The blunt remarks drew fire from Democratic Unionists in Northern Ireland and officials in London.
77. **Outpaced by European Allies (May 11, 2023):** Even as Britain announces it is providing Storm Shadow missiles to give Ukraine more deep-strike capability, the Biden administration still refuses to transfer ATACMS due to perceived risks of escalation and supposed supply limitations.
78. **State Department Downplays Tiananmen Square Anniversary (June 4, 2023):** Despite pledging to put human rights at the center of its foreign policy, the Biden State Department sent diplomats to China on the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square Massacre, when the PRC sent tanks to brutally repress peaceful pro-democracy protesters and civilians. It also reduced the normal three paragraph annual memorial statement to a single paragraph.
79. **White House Denies Chinese Spy Base Report (June 8, 2023):** After The Wall Street Journal reported that Beijing has installed a spy base just miles off the coast of Florida in neighboring Cuba, NSC Spokesman John Kirby described the story as “inaccurate.” Two days later, the White House admitted the story’s veracity; one Biden official even stated the threat has been addressed through “diplomacy” and the PRC has been “slowed down.”
80. **Biden Administration Greenlights Chinese Cigarettes (June 10, 2023):** The FDA allowed Chinese-manufactured illegal e-cigarettes to remain on the market and easily accessible in American liquor and convenience stores despite China’s continuous manufacturing of fentanyl precursor chemicals and itssmuggling across the Southern Border. In 2022 alone, DEA seized more than 58 million fentanyl-laced pills and 13,000 pounds of fentanyl powder,” more than enough to kill everyone in the United States and most of it manufactured in China
81. **Sec. Blinken Visits China (June 18, 2023):** On the heels of the espionage balloon incident, revelations of a CCP spy base in Cuba, and reports that PLA hackers were hiding malicious computer code inside U.S. military base networks, Sec. Blinken spent eleven hours in talks with Beijing officials. The trip did not lead to accountability for China’s export of fentanyl precursor chemicals, a resumption of military-to-military dialogue, or commitments to address China’s economic coercion, IP theft, and other destabilizing trade activities. The Biden Administration may even have declined to release the results of the FBI’s probe on the Chinese military-surveillance balloon to secure a meeting.
82. **Beijing Gaslights Blinken on Fentanyl Cooperation (June 19, 2023):** After Sec. Blinken left China, he told reports the two countries agreed to set up “a working group or joint effort” to combat fentanyl trafficking. But just days after the visit, China lashed out at America for its “chronic problem of drug abuse” and made clear it had no intention of cooperating with the State Department in the near future.
83. **Top Iran Negotiator Investigated by FBI (June 29, 2023):** Rob Malley, President Biden’s former special envoy to Iran, was placed on unpaid leave for allegedly mishandling classified materials and divulging national secrets to foreign nationals–matters under FBI investigation. Malley’s past statements that Hamas must be understood as a “charity organization and social branch”–which have recently resurfaced have also raised alarm. Meanwhile, the Blinken State Department continues to prevaricate about the incident when confronted by lawmakers.
84. **Blocking Timetable for Ukraine’s Accession to NATO (July 12, 2023):** At the Vilnius Summit, President Biden prevented allies from offering Kyiv a clear path to membership in the Alliance, continuing needless ambiguity about Ukraine’s status in an effort to avoid provoking Russia.
85. **State Department Refuses to Blame China for Clear Hack (July 20, 2023):** A cyber-espionage attack successfully accessed the email accounts of Commerce Sec. Gina Raimondo, U.S. Ambassador Nicholas Burns, and senior Biden Administration officials working on East Asian and Pacific affairs such as Daniel Kritenbrink. Weeks later, it was revealed that the Chinese hackers stole 60,000 State Department emails, which may have contained significant sensitive information. But the Biden Administration refused to formally blame China for the hack despite Microsoft’s assessment linking it to a Chinese hacking group.
86. **Treasury Announces Weak Investment Restrictions (August 9, 2023):** Biden’s Treasury Department announced long-awaited restrictions on outbound U.S. investment in certain Chinese companies–except the measures are ridden with loopholes, ignore the dual-use nature of important technologies, and fail to include critical industries for Beijing. By the Treasury Department’s own admission, the executive order was a “narrowly targeted action.”
87. **Paying Ransom to Tehran (September 11, 2023):** The Biden Administration gave the Iranian regime a massive $6 billion windfall by releasing frozen assets in exchange for the release of five Americans. The move–done in direct violation of the United States’ longstanding no-concessions policy–was made just weeks before Hamas’s brutal invasion of Israel and months before the IRGC launched 350 missiles and drones at Israel. Despite assurances the funds would only be expended for “humanitarian purposes,” they are clearly being used to benefit Iran’s terrorist proxies, proliferation program, and the Russian military machine killing Ukrainians every day.
88. **Jake Sullivan Touts “Quieter” Middle East Before Oct. 7 (September 29, 2023):** Just days before Hamas’ brutal October 7 attack on Israel, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan boasted the Middle East “is quieter today than it has been in two decades.” The statement revealed a spectacular lack of foresight into how the Biden Administration’s funding of Palestinian terror and Iranian proxies would set the conditions for a disastrous conflict and underscored how out of touch President Biden’s national security team is with events on the ground. In 2024, the region has been at its most dangerous since at least 1973.
89. **Creating Conditions for Hamas’ Unprecedented Attack (October 7, 2023):** After providing Tehran with billions in sanctions relief, chasing an elusive JCPOA return for two and half years, and refusing to forcefully defend U.S. troops against dozens of attacks by Iranian proxies, Hamas–another Iranian proxy–killed more than 30 Americans during the October 7 terrorist attacks. Five are still being held as hostages in Gaza. These acts of appeasement helped set the conditions for the war’s outbreak and undermined deterrence.
90. **Allowing Iran to Attack U.S. Forces with Impunity (October 17, 2023):** Despite Iran’s partners in terror carrying out over 170 attacks on U.S. military bases and assets in Syria, Iraq, and Jordan in response to U.S. support for Israel against Hamas, President Biden has only responded with four true retaliatory counterattacks. This permissive approach has emboldened attacks on our service members in the region.
91. **Lifting Sanctions on Maduro’s Venezuela (October 18, 2023):** Squandering financial leverage, Biden’s Treasury Department eased oil, gas, and gold sanctions against Caracas and issued a general license authorizing U.S. companies to engage in the government-controlled energy sector. Predictably, Maduro responded by breaking promises on democratic progress and barring opposition candidates for July’s sham election.
92. **Democrats Clean Up San Francisco to Impress Xi (November 10, 2023):** Ahead of President Biden’s summit with Xi Jinping in San Francisco, Democrat authorities raced to remove the city’s homeless camps and clean up the city’s streets with power-washing and scrubbing. Gov. Newsom confirmed the reason for the move: “I know folks are saying, ‘Oh, they’re just cleaning up this place because all those fancy leaders are coming to town’ \[...] That’s true.” The beautification effort baffled many San Francisco residents, who expressed dismay that the city would only address public works to welcome an authoritarian leader rather than to care for ordinary Americans.
93. **Defense Secretary Austin Goes MIA (January 1-15, 2024):** Without disclosing his whereabouts to President Biden, Congress, the NSC, or even his deputy, Sec. Austin disappears for several days while Iran-backed militias strike U.S. bases and Navy assets in the Persian Gulf. Vacationing in Puerto Rico, Deputy Sec. Hicks is notified she will assume his authority. After public alarm, the Pentagon reveals Austin is hospitalized but chose to maintain his “personal privacy.” He refuses to resign for the gross misconduct.
94. **Biden Administration Bans LNG Exports (January 26, 2024):** In a transparently political effort to win over progressive environmentalists, the White House announces a ban on the export of liquified natural gas–a move it frames as advancing the renewable energy transition and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, the move undercuts Western allies seeking to reduce their reliance on Russian gas by cutting stable U.S. supply.
95. **Reversing Pompeo Doctrine on Israeli Settlements (February 23, 2024):** Sec. Blinken reversed U.S. policy by concluding that Israeli settlement expansion in the West Bank is “inconsistent with international law” and “counterproductive to achieving enduring peace.” The move marked a return to Sec. Kerry’s policy, which affirmed the supposed illegality of settlements rather than merely indicating that unrestrained settlement activity could be an obstacle to peace.
96. **Biden’s FY2025 Budget Cuts Defense Budget–Again (March 11, 2024):** President Biden’s requested military budget for this fiscal year proposed a real 10 percent cut from the level authorized by Congress in FY2024 once adjusting for inflation. The move to cut the Pentagon’s buying power reflects wishful thinking that America can keep pace with evolving threats without giving our defense apparatus the funding to do so.
97. **Abstaining at the UN (March 25, 2024):** Caving to international pressure, UN Amb. Thomas-Greenfield refuses to veto UNSC resolution 2728, allowing its passage. The resolution, which called for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, did not even include language condemning Hamas for its October 7 massacre or tying a ceasefire to the release of hostages–a prior U.S. demand.
98. **Biden’s “Both Sides” Moment on Antisemitic Protests (April 22, 2024):** When asked to condemn antisemitic protests on college campuses, President Biden said “I condemn the antisemitic protests \[...] I also condemn those who don't understand what's going on with the Palestinians.” The comments generated widespread outrage for his inability to condemn anti-Jewish activism without caveat. He subsequently refused to deploy the National Guard to protect Jewish students and break up Columbia University’s anti-Israel encampments, or take any other meaningful action to restore order at American universities.
99. **Losing Status-of-Forces Agreements (April 25, 2024):** In a blow to U.S. counterterrorism operations in Africa, the Pentagon announced the majority of U.S. troops would be extracted from Chad and Niger, which have been vital to U.S. efforts across the Sahel. The setbacks have raised concerns that the reduced footprint will allow the spread of jihadi violence south of the Sahara, where Al-Shabaab and Boko Haram remain active and local groups have pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda and the Islamic State. The developments also coincide with rising ties between Wagner mercenaries and Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso and Russian efforts to fill the U.S. security vacuum.
100. **Cutting Off Precision Munitions to Israel (May 9, 2024):** The Biden Administration announced it would halt shipments of bombs and artillery shells to Israel if the IDF moved into Rafah to eliminate Hamas and achieve military objectives. The decision–predicated on concerns the operation would lead to major civilian casualties–ironically increased the odds civilians would be killed by cutting off the supply of precision munitions, which provide greater accuracy. These restrictions undercut Israel’s ability to defend itself and marked an unprecedented betrayal of a close ally.
101. **Trying to Release GTMO Detainees Before Hamas Attack (May 20, 2024):** News surfaces that the Biden Administration attempted to release 11 GTMO detainees from U.S. custody to the Middle East prior to the Oct. 7 attack, but abruptly halted the move due to political optics. The move defied Pentagon and ODNI data pointing to risks of recidivism: Almost a fifth of current or former detainees re-engaged in terrorism after transfer or release.
102. **Letting Havana Officials Tour Miami Airport TSA Facilities (May 20, 2024):** On Cuban Independence Day, the Biden State Department welcomed five Havana officials with a tour of TSA facilities at Miami International Airport, giving them access to secure areas for five hours. They inspected a TSA checkpoint and baggage screening area. The move was widely condemned as reckless for inviting a state sponsor of terrorism into secure facilities at one of the busiest airports in America.
103. **Biden Administration Presses Europe Not to Rebuke Iran (May 27, 2024):** Despite Tehran’s advances in its nuclear program and expanded stockpile of near-weapons-grade fissile material to a record level, the Biden Administration reportedly urged Britain and France to avoid censuring Iran at the IAEA member-state board. European diplomats warned that approach would undercut the IAEA’s authority and weaken the credibility of Western pressure on Iran.
104. **Building the Gaza Floating Pier (May 28, 2024):** During his State of the Union address, President Biden announced the initiative to build a facility offshore of the Gaza Strip for delivering humanitarian aid via maritime cargo. However, the pier promptly collapsed after heavy seas and the operation received criticism as a PR stunt that cost $320 million. The project also ignored the advice of many military experts who indicated that such piers were not designed to operate in turbulent weather as well as concerns that humanitarian aid shipments would not reach Palestinians and be diverted by Hamas.
105. **Whipping Against ICC Sanctions (June 4, 2024):** After Karim Khan–the International Criminal Court (ICC)’s prosecutor–issued outrageous arrest warrants against Prime Minister Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for supposed war crimes, the Biden White House urged House Democrats to oppose bipartisan legislation imposing sanctions on the ICC. While many progressives defied the Biden Administration’s efforts to shield the ICC, the episode demonstrated President Biden’s unwillingness to confront anti-Israel lawfare in anti-Semitic kangaroo courts like the ICC.